okay thank you
i'm i'm not i'm not used to being
preceded by speeches that make me think
i'm not going to do as well but that's
already happened three times
um
it's and it's something which um
you have to be both personal and
analytical about david um i wrote a bit
of a speech i'm going to ramble around
parts of it
um
because there's obviously is far more
well no it's it's much a personal thing
as it is intellectual this is uh a
person we all admired and loved
and his loss was very hard to take
and
i wrote
i managed to escape covered by traveling
to thailand from the uk and the
netherlands i saw what a disastrous job
they were doing which was a very good
decision last year and not so crashlot
this year but still
i think i've come out ahead
uh and therefore i evaded the worst of
2020 and i was effectively being a
spectator
um
and then i was i'm sorry
then i was in a in a chat with some
mathematics colleagues pulling apart the
garbage that passes for neoclassical
economics as analysis of climate change
and i suddenly saw a message
i think from stacy herbert
uh saying that david had died
and
[Music]
i was just in shock and i wrote later
that
this was like 2020 saying you think you
managed to avoid this well no you didn't
here's your dose of 2020. so it was very
shocking and a great loss
um both intellectually and personally
i want to go to why david was so
important to me intellectually and that
is that economics tries to pretend that
it's the hard science of the social
sciences and it basically rubbishes
anthropology
but if you learn economics as well as i
have you know it's built on myths uh
they disguise it with what appears to be
mathematics to people who aren't trained
in mathematics but it's so bad when you
take a look at it i actually call it
mythematics not mathematics and in that
sense anthropology in david's hands was
the true
hard
science of the of the social sciences
because you actually looked at and
reacted to the evidence and i want to
work with my favorite uh part of what i
call the book of debt um so bear with me
if i go a bit too long here but this is
some
extracts from david's discussions of the
the myth of barter in mainstream
economics he says the economy is where
we indulge in our natural propensity to
truck and barter and we're still
trucking and bartering we always will be
money is simply the most efficient for
means in madagascar i david had the
privilege of interviewing uh calenoro a
tiny ghostly creature that a local
spirit medium claimed to keep hidden
away in a chest at home but all it
wanted to talk about was money
i finally asked so what did you use for
money back in ancient times when you
were still alive
the mysterious voice immediately replied
no we didn't use money in ancient times
we used to bar at commodities directly
one for the other
and david says the story's everywhere
even in madagascar
people can't imagine any other way that
money might have come about he said the
problem is there's no evidence that it
ever happened an enormous amount of
evidence that it never did
for centuries explorers have been tried
to find this fabled land of bada none
with success
and the economists on the other hand
live with their myths so adam smith made
a myth about aboriginal north america
and by the middle of the 1850s late 18th
century in the 19th century pardon me
louis
morgan's description of life in the
iroquois was available and that made it
clear that the main institution were
long houses where goods were allocated
by women's councils and no one ever
traded arrowheads for slabs of meat
economists simply ignored this
information mr jevins who was one of the
founders of neoclassical economics took
his example straight from smith with
indians swapping his venison for elk and
beaver hides and made no use of actual
descriptions of indian life that made it
clear that smith had simply made this up
now i wish that david was only talking
effectively about classical economics
and 250 years ago but the same nonsense
is alive on steroids today and i'll just
give you an idea of that from a paper
i've just been pulling apart that
allegedly was
it was economists estimating what would
be the impact of all the major tipping
points in the climate being tipped so
arctic summer aci is gone greenland gone
west antarctic gone amok gone no more
gulf stream keeping the uk warm and the
europe warm
even the perm the permafrost gone and
meet the metal hydrates disappeared they
said that would cause it a 1.4
fall in gdp compared to what it would
have been in the complete absence of
climate change
now how did they get that nonsense
conclusion part of it was assuming that
damages were simply a square the square
of time so two
of temperature increase so two degrees
was four times as bad as one and three
degrees was nine times as bad and that's
rising but it's very very gradual and
they multiplied by a parameter which
made it not t squared but
.00227 times t squared meaning 10
degrees of increase
would only add eight yes
what david identified the myths they
live with the myths they continue to are
still there and we should honor david by
getting rid of neoclassical economics